# canaryopera

Every canary wants to do their job of singing their song. Most canaries like to sing together, not to work in isolation reinventing tools to survive toxic situations (e.g. coal mines).  Canary Opera, we develop and operationalize shared open source tools that amplify our work and creating work environments where we can thrive.   We are currently designing two tools, the Canary Opera Meeting App and a repository of Collaborative Publication Agreements.  

## CanaryOpera Work Environment Inventory  

When your work environment travels across networks and communities, to converge in person in new meeting venues, there is ususally uncertainty about who you will meet, and whether it will be a safe working environment.  Wonderful, enlightening, traumatic and terrifying surprises happen all the time at professional meetings, workshops and trainings. The meeting organizers may have presented a Code of Conduct or invite you to reach out to them with issues, however, those processes are not accessible at the time scales required to reflect and process both positive and negative emotional responses.  We are designing Canary Opera as an App that provides neutral third-party reporting service for personal experiences that happen in work environments outside of the home office.  Our prototype text messaging service will be piloted at the 2019 Waterhackweek, a one-week in person training sponsored by the National Science Foundation Cybertraining Program.  The 60 person cohort of instructors and participants have been recruited from around the world, and selected for cohort diversity optimized with 20 different personal, professional, and scientific interests and experiences.  Participants and instructors will be provided an anonymous volunteer text messaging service which will collect qualitiative data on experiences, interactions and observations throughout the training.  Reporting will be coded for use in determining variables which enhanced or constructed the learning environment, and those which destabilized or destructed the learning environment.  Professionally trained conflict resolution mediators will be available for in person reporting, if needed.  The data and coding of variables will be used to design a backend processes for supporting and reporting to institions and individuals, and maintaining privacy.  We envision building an App which can be both a secret keeper for personal trauma and a microphone for shared experiences.  The data collected by Canary Opera is intended to support and enhance thriving work environments by quantifying, listening, and understanding what every canary needs to keep singing.  


## Collaborative Publication Agreements

Folders: Each folder is labeled by first author, publication acronym, and year of publication. The folders contain Collaborative Publication Agreements filled out by each author on a publication.

The Collaborative Publication Agreement (AGREE_hs.md) template was designed to capture metadata, data and code provenance, contributors and funders for populating fields in the HydroShare Resource (www.hydroshare.org). We include definitions of basic collaboration components (e.g. author, contributor) as well as the following sections: Code of Conduct, Cultural Disclosure, and Author Expectations.

To contribute to this open-source project, please fork the repository, build your own templates and folders for publications, and Pull Request canaryopera to merge your contributions.
